---
title: 'How to: Generate XML Documentation Files'
TOCTitle: 'How to: Generate XML Documentation Files'
ms:assetid: fd623aab-45c0-4a96-afc3-8c7f05f8b2dd
ms:mtpsurl: https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/Cc654944(v=AX.60)
ms:contentKeyID: 35254209
ms.date: 05/18/2015
mtps_version: v=AX.60
f1_keywords:
- Classes.SysXmlDocumentationCreateFile
---

# How to: Generate XML Documentation Files 


_**Applies To:** Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R3, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R2, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 Feature Pack, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012_

This topic explains how to generate XML documentation files. After you have added XML documentation to the X++ code, you can generate XML documentation files. For information about how to add XML documentation to X++ code, see [How to: Add XML Documentation to X++ Source Code](how-to-add-xml-documentation-to-x-source-code.md).

The documentation file contains the documentation from the header templates in the source code. The reflection file contains reflection information about all the classes, tables, methods, data types, and base enumerations in the current layer. You can generate these XML files for a project or for the entire application. XML files for a project are generated by using a command in Microsoft Dynamics AX. XML files for the entire application are generated by using the command prompt. Generating XML files for the entire application can take a long time, depending on how much documentation has been written in the code.

## Generating XML Documentation Files

You can create XML documentation files for a project or for the entire application.

### To generate XML documentation files for a project

1.  Open the **Projects** form by pressing CTRL+SHIFT+P.

2.  Right-click the project for which you want to create XML documentation files, point to **Add-Ins**, and then click **Extract XML documentation**.

3.  Select the **Documentation** check box if you want to create a documentation file for the project.

4.  Select the **Reflection** check box if you want to create a reflection file for the project.

5.  In the **File name** fields, specify the destination of each file.
    

    > [!NOTE]
    > <P>The file name should end with the .xml file name extension.</P>



### To generate XML documentation files for the entire application

1.  Create a folder in which you will create the XML documentation files. This procedure will reference a folder that has the path, C:\\XMLDoc.
    

    > [!NOTE]
    > <P>For security purposes, you may not be able to create XML documentation files directly on the root of a drive.</P>



2.  At the command prompt, execute the following command to create a documentation file for the entire application: Ax32.exe -startupcmd=xmldocumentation\_C:\\XMLDoc\\documentation.xml

3.  At the command prompt, execute the following command to create a reflection file for the entire application: Ax32.exe -startupcmd=xmlreflection\_C:\\XMLDoc\\reflection.xml
    

    > [!NOTE]
    > <P>When you use these commands, Microsoft Dynamics AX will start and create the XML files. Microsoft Dynamics AX will close when it finishes.</P>



## See also

[XML Documentation](xml-documentation.md)

[XML Documentation Overview](xml-documentation-overview.md)

[XML Documentation Tags](xml-documentation-tags.md)

[How to: Add XML Documentation to X++ Source Code](how-to-add-xml-documentation-to-x-source-code.md)

[Walkthrough: Creating XML Documentation in Microsoft Dynamics AX](walkthrough-creating-xml-documentation-in-microsoft-dynamics-ax.md)

[Best Practices: XML Documentation](best-practices-xml-documentation.md)

  
**Announcements:** New book: "Inside Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R3" now available. Get your copy at the [MS Press Store](https://www.microsoftpressstore.com/store/inside-microsoft-dynamics-ax-2012-r3-9780735685109).

