---
title: 'Walkthrough: Using the Cross-Reference Tool with Visual Studio Projects'
TOCTitle: 'Walkthrough: Using the Cross-Reference Tool with Visual Studio Projects'
ms:assetid: 69f72091-94ef-4557-8357-40c0dc74a7bf
ms:mtpsurl: https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/Gg889239(v=AX.60)
ms:contentKeyID: 35272136
ms.date: 11/21/2012
mtps_version: v=AX.60
dev_langs:
- csharp
---

# Walkthrough: Using the Cross-Reference Tool with Visual Studio Projects 


_**Applies To:** Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R2, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 Feature Pack, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012_

This topic shows you how to use the Cross-reference tool with managed code by creating two C\# projects and adding them to the Application Object Tree (AOT).

This walkthrough illustrates the following tasks:

  - Creating the projects in Visual Studio and adding them to the AOT

  - Using the Cross-reference tool to view the cross-reference information

## Prerequisites

To complete this walkthrough you will need:

  - Microsoft Dynamics AX with Visual Studio Tools installed

  - Visual Studio 2010

## Creating the Projects in Visual Studio

The following procedure explains how to create the projects in Visual Studio and add them to the AOT.

### To create the projects

1.  Create a new C\# class library project in Visual Studio by selecting **File** \> **New** \> **Project**.

2.  From the Installed Templates tree, click **Visual C\#** \> **Windows** and select the **Class Library** template. Accept the default project name, for example, ClassLibrary1.

3.  In Solution Explorer, create and add another C\# class library project to the solution by right-clicking the solution and selecting **Add** \> **New Project**.

4.  Select the **Class Library** template. Accept the default project name, for example, ClassLibrary2.

5.  In Solution Explorer, click the ClassLibrary1 project and add a project reference to the ClassLibrary2 project by right-clicking and selecting **Add Reference**. On the **Projects** tab, select the ClassLibrary2 project.

6.  In Solution Explorer, right-click the solution and select **Build Solution**.

7.  In Visual Studio, add the ClassLibrary1 and ClassLibrary2 projects to the AOT by following the steps in [How to: Add a Visual Studio Project to the AOT](how-to-add-a-visual-studio-project-to-the-aot.md).

8.  In Visual Studio, add an X++ class to the ClassLibrary2 project by selecting **View** \> **Application Explorer**. Expand the **Classes** node and drag the ChartOfAccounts class to the ClassLibrary2 project.

9.  In Visual Studio, add the following method to Class1 in the ClassLibrary2 project.
    
    ``` csharp
    bool getIsBuffer()
            {
                ChartOfAccounts coa;
                bool result;
    
                coa = new ChartOfAccounts();
                                               // Get the class property and return it.
                result = coa.isBuffer();
    
                return result;
            }
    ```

10. In Solution Explorer, right-click the ClassLibrary2 project and select **Build**.

## Using the Cross-Reference Tool

The following procedure explains how to use the Cross-reference tool to view the cross-reference information for the managed code objects that you created. For more information, see [Viewing the Cross-Reference System Information](viewing-the-cross-reference-system-information.md).

### To use the Cross-reference tool

1.  In Microsoft Dynamics AX, open the AOT, click **Visual Studio Projects** \> **C Sharp Projects** and select the ClassLibrary1 project.

2.  Right-click and select **Add-Ins** \> **Cross-reference** \> **Using (instant view)**. The **Complete cross reference** form appears and displays a reference to the ClassLibrary2 project. Cross reference information for managed code is updated immediately when the projects are added to the AOT.

3.  To see the cross-reference information for ClassLibrary2, right-click ClassLibrary2 and select **Add-Ins** \> **Cross-reference** \> **Using (instant view)**. The **Complete cross reference** form shows the location of the ClassLibrary2.dll assembly and all the locations where the ChartOfAccounts class is used.

4.  To view the cross-reference information in the opposite direction, you must first update the cross-references. To do so, right-click the ClassLibrary2 project and select **Add-Ins** \> **Cross-reference** \> **Update**.

5.  Then right-click the ChartOfAccounts class and select **Add-Ins** \> **Cross-reference** \> **Used by**. The **Used by** form shows you all the managed code that uses the ChartOfAccounts class which is ClassLibrary2 project, in this case.


> [!TIP]
> <P>If you encounter issues and need to troubleshoot cross-reference information, the assemblies generated by the Cross-reference tool can be found in the directory C:\Users\&lt;username&gt;\AppData\Local\Microsoft\Dynamics AX\CrossReferenceAssemblies.</P>



## See also

[Cross-References and Visual Studio Projects](cross-references-and-visual-studio-projects.md)

[Viewing the Cross-Reference System Information](viewing-the-cross-reference-system-information.md)

